
Definition - What does Denial-of-Service Attack (DoS) mean?
A denial-of-service (DoS) is any type of attack where the attackers (hackers) attempt to prevent legitimate users from accessing the service. 
In a DoS attack, the attacker usually sends excessive messages asking the network or server to authenticate requests that have invalid return addresses.
The network or server will not be able to find the return address of the attacker when sending the authentication approval, causing the server to wait before closing the connection. 

There are two general methods of DoS attacks: flooding services or crashing services. 
Flood attacks occur when the system receives too much traffic for the server to buffer, causing them to slow down and eventually stop. 

Popular flood attacks include:
Buffer overflow attacks – the most common DoS attack.
The concept is to send more traffic to a network address than the programmers have built the system to handle. 
It includes the attacks listed below, in addition to others that are designed to exploit bugs specific to certain applications or networks
ICMP flood – leverages misconfigured network devices by sending spoofed packets that ping every computer on the targeted network, instead of just one specific machine. 
The network is then triggered to amplify the traffic. This attack is also known as the smurf attack or ping of death.
SYN flood – sends a request to connect to a server, but never completes the handshake. Continues until all open ports are saturated with requests and none are available for legitimate users to connect to.
Other DoS attacks simply exploit vulnerabilities that cause the target system or service to crash. 
In these attacks, input is sent that takes advantage of bugs in the target that subsequently crash or severely destabilize the system, so that it can’t be accessed or used.

Other DoS attacks simply exploit vulnerabilities that cause the target system or service to crash. 
In these attacks, input is sent that takes advantage of bugs in the target that subsequently crash or severely destabilize the system, so that it can’t be accessed or used.